# portfolio-prep-cs-230
#Lawrence Arundel CS 230 Assignment 8-2 Journal

**#Briefly summarize The Gaming Room client and their software requirements. Who was the client? What type of software did they want you to design?**
The Gaming Room client and its software requirements include a game having the ability to have one or more teams involved; each team having multiple players assigned to it; game and team names must be unique to allow users to check whether a name is in use when choosing a team name; and only one instance of the game can exist in memory at any given time. The new client is called The Gaming Room, and they want to develop a web-based game that serves multiple platforms based on their current game, Draw It or Lose It, which will be available in an Android app only. The client wants us to develop a mobile application design.

**What did you do particularly well in developing this documentation?**
I believe I did particularly well in developing the advantages and disadvantages within the documentation pertaining to the client side, server side, and development tools. Given direction by my professor, I was able to grasp particular concepts and ideas and produce an easily readable chart that helped to interpret the data.

**What about the process of working through a design document did you find helpful when developing the code?**
I believe the process of working through a design document that I found helpful when developing the code was that it helped to conceptualize the end product. By utilizing the document, it helped to construct code that remained within the constraints of the client. Without fully understanding the document, or being able to construct it, it would pose many problems when attempting to implement code.

**If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?**
If I could choose one part of my work on these documents to revise, I would pick the recommendations section. I would improve this by implementing more perspectives within the various realms of recommendations. I could also learn more about the different types of perspectives to gain more clarity on how to improve in these areas. These areas include security, storage management, and many others included within this documentation.

**How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your software design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?**
The way I interpreted the user's needs and implemented them into my software design was by making sure to make notes of the certain constraints, prioritize them in a way that is the most effective, and cultivate a plan on how to execute these constraints given the various tools provided within the computing environment. It is important to consider the user's needs when designing because the client is ultimately in charge of the project. If the client is not thrilled by the end result, or in favor of it, then the design will fall short of expectations and need to be revised. The revision can make production more costly, lower team morale, and create ineffective situations through the development process.

**How did you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a similar software application?**
I approached designing software by understanding the client's constraints. After assessing these constraints, I then applied the knowledge of which systems to implement, encompassing these constraints. After deciding which systems would be implemented, I next assessed cost, security measures, and other factors. Lastly, I required recommendations for the assessed implementations and further assessed the final results toward the end product. The techniques and strategies I would use in the future to analyze and design a similar software application would be to understand the client's constraints in an effective manner. I would also utilize this software template provided as a guide to developing my own design. Lastly, utilizing and asking for help on various topics if needed to have a better understanding of the various constraints or design applications.
